if someone is touching their neck it
could be an instinctive attempt to
protect themselves
they're clearly feeling uncomfortable
touching the nose is a sign
someone is lying to you they must be
checking if it's growing pinocchio-style
picking their nose means they have a
booger and it's bothering them
okay i added that one but it's true
hiding hands during a conversation is
like hiding something they don't want
you to know
is someone running their hands through
the hair
they're flirting with you and feeling
really comfortable
in your company playing with hair and
holding it
isn't too good though it may be an
attempt to fill an awkward pause
or soothe the nerves picking imaginary
hairs from your sweater
is a displacement gesture someone isn't
happy with what you're telling them
but they won't tell you directly because
they're afraid to offend you
drumming fingers on the desk is
instinctively trying to make yourself
busy with something when you're
impatient or frustrated
rubbing hands together is a positive
sign it's like saying
i hope we'll both benefit from each
other
crossing arms in the front is a way for
a person to protect themselves
from the rest of the world and
particularly the one they're talking to
you must have really freaked them out if
they're crossing arms behind the back
it's a totally different thing though
anger transforms into calm
and they have nothing else to fear if a
person is giving you a glove handshake
taking your wrist in their free hand
they're showing that they
are trustworthy if someone is putting
their palm on the top of your hand
they're showing you sympathy that's if
they do it instantly though
if you've been shaking hands for a while
and then they decide to put their hand
on top
it's a way of showing who's the boss
holding someone's hand from below is
like telling them you're always there
for them in case a person is invading
your private space
and casually touching your elbow forearm
or other body part during the handshake
with a free hand
it's a sign they really need company you
decide how to react to it
speaking of handshakes have you noticed
how you normally do it
let me know in the comments so you're
talking to someone
and they suddenly lean towards you
that's a really good sign
especially if their hands are open with
palms facing up
this is an instinctive attempt to
connect with you
if a person is leaning away that's just
the opposite reaction
they don't want to get close and
personal with you if they're doing it
while sitting
they also must be bored with the
conversation and uncomfortable with you
it's a twofer want to get away are they
standing up straight with shoulders
proudly pulled back
this power position is a way of saying
i'm the
boss it's like taking up as much space
as you can to show your significance
slouching is the opposite you fear to
take too much space
because you're uncertain about your role
in this conversation
word to the wise stop slouching people
with good posture are better liked
and more often promoted when a group of
people are laughing
each person looks at the individual he
or she
likes the most after a good joke or in
the middle of an interesting discussion
every person instinctively looks at the
person they like the most
this is because they want to make sure
that the object of their desires
approves of and shares their sense of
humor so
in order to find out everything about a
group of friends
get a few really good jokes ready and
watch everybody like a hawk
your observations might turn out really
surprising
[Music]
people feel it's much easier to evaluate
something if they have the original
price
even if it's wrong as kind of an anchor
it's often used by stores
for example you wouldn't buy a blouse
for three hundred dollars in your right
mind
however if you see it originally cost a
thousand dollars
you'll think it's a sin to miss such a
great deal even though the initial price
might be invented we tend to see our
memories as small
movies or video clips things that lie on
some shelf
inside our brain safe and unalterable
but as it turns out recollections of
past events
change every time they pass before our
mind's eye
their content is influenced by memory
blackouts
and by events that took place in the
more recent past
for example you don't have clear
recollections of all the people who
attended a family get-together a couple
of years ago
but since your aunt never misses events
of this kind
your mind eventually includes her in the
memories
even if she was absent on that
particular occasion
before an important conversation a
public speech or another event that
makes you nervous
you should try to chew some gum or even
eat something
a 2011 study at tokyo medical and dental
university
concluded that the chewing motion
greatly reduces
feelings of anxiety the thing is that
nobody eats when they're in danger so
while you're chewing your brain thinks
it's safe to relax
it sends a signal that relieves tension
and helps calm you down
you're basically tricking your own brain
the same tokyo research explains that
some ancient mayans and greeks who used
to chew on tree resin were less tense
than their peers
who didn't share this habit oh maybe
this is where the expression
she really chewed him out came from wow
that would make her a stressed out
cannibal
okay maybe not we often judge the
correctness of a decision
by the final result not by the actions
taken to achieve it
this effect is often used by those ads
which concentrate you only on the final
result
for example on buying so if you're using
a brand new iphone
you cannot claim that the decision to
spend all your money on it was right
how hard could it be to take 20 bucks
from an mba
student in fact professor max bazerman
proves it's easy-peasy
in 2010 he first conducted an experiment
at his class
where he organized a simple auction he
would give a 20
bill to the student who pays the most
for it
the bidding started at one dollar the
only rules of the auction
were that bids could only go up by one
dollar no less no more
and that the second best bidder would
pay the whole sum of their bid to the
professor
so let's say the best bid was eighteen
dollars then the second best would be
seventeen dollars
the one who paid eighteen dollars would
receive the auction bill and win two
bucks
while the one who bid 17 would just pay
the money
and receive nothing simple right well
at first the auction went as planned but
the stakes rose pretty fast
and soon the bids reached the nominal
value of twenty dollars
a pause ensued and then someone bid 20
watt
students started laughing at that but
surprisingly the bidding didn't stop
the auction which turned basically to
forest at this point
continued until the students finally had
enough
the twenty dollar bill was sold for two
hundred four dollars
the overall sum the professor won
totaled three hundred eighty seven
dollars
as bazerman explained after the end of
the auction
it was the typical picture for any
business person
he conducted the same experiment with
ceos of major companies
and still managed to sell the 20 bucks
above their face value
it all boils down to the fact that
nobody wants to be the second
bidder and lose money without winning
anything back
so the auction continues until someone
sees the fallacy
and decides to stop the race sometimes
as you can see it happens much too late
let's say you're at an electronics store
choosing a new sd card for your camera
you see two options before you one has
the capacity of 64 gb
and costs 15 and the other has a storage
space of 128 gb
but costs 30 there's an equal chance of
you choosing either of them
some will prefer greater capacity while
others will go for lower price
which one would you choose by the way
let me know down in the comments
okay and now a third option appears
this sd card has the capacity of 96 gb
which is higher than the first but lower
than the second
but its price is higher than both it's
35 dollars
this option is called a decoy and its
role is to make the pricier second sd
card more
favorable in the eyes of consumers
indeed
when you look at all three options you
actually consider only the first two
because the third one is worse than
either of them still
you now look at the 128 gb card from
another angle
it's cheaper than the 96 gb one and has
more storage space
making it better in all respects the 64
gb
card though is only cheaper than the 96
gb one
but its capacity is lower it's kind of
obvious that you would choose the best
one right
well marketing specialists got you there
the only reason why there's this third
option on the market
is to create this decoy to make you buy
a more
expensive product insidious
what are they wearing if they look more
polished this person is probably there
to impress
is their style more casual this could
mean that they're relaxed
revealing clothing can be a sign that
they feel the need for attention
and like pushing boundaries
[Music]
the answers to these questions are your
first clues
you can figure out someone's intentions
simply by observing their clothing
when someone is puffed up and a little
too confident
this could mean a big ego
[Music]
as for those who are a little more
indecisive and deflated
they probably have a low self-esteem and
a real
lack of self-confidence if a person
simply holds their head high
they've got pure confidence pay
attention to where
someone's body is leaning we usually
lean toward things we like
and away from things we don't
[Music]
has this person crossed their arms and
legs you got to know this one by now
it's the defensive body language of
someone who is trying to protect or
distance themselves
[Music]
and the final bodily movement is to look
for lip
biting lip biting usually indicates that
a person is trying to soothe themselves
because they feel under pressure or
awkward
it can also show romantic interest ooh
la
where are their wrinkles most pronounced
[Music]
if their frown lines are exaggerated it
could mean lots of worry or stress
this person has probably had a tough
life or a lot of responsibility at work
both of these factors can have a real
impact on a person's character
crow's feet usually mean a lot of
smiling and happiness
individual is probably a joy to be
around
pursed lips usually indicate anger or
contempt
and a clenched jaw means tension more
often than not
if it growls loudly that indicates
hunger so
head on over to the hors d'oeuvres
otherwise have you ever had a negative
reaction to someone you
literally just met you can thank your
gut
feeling for that generally speaking our
gut can sense the things that are beyond
the obvious
so if yours is telling you something is
just off about a certain person
you might want to take the hint
[Music]
and it's not always a bad gut feeling
either
sometimes you can have an inexplicable
good feeling about someone
of course our intuition isn't 100
calibrated
so it's a good idea to factor in other
cues when reading someone
try to listen carefully to the tone of
voice people normally have
then compare it to the tone in which
they talk to you
it will be a pitch higher if they like
you
pay the most attention to action words
in someone's speech
someone will say i decided to do
something and others will just say they
did it
it's a great difference because now you
know which person gave more
thought to their actions when people
laugh
they look at those they like the most in
a group we naturally want to share
emotions with those we like
and we need appreciation from them if a
person closes their eyes when talking to
you
it doesn't mean they don't want to see
you most often it means this person is
deeply concentrated and wants to say
something really important
so it's just a sign you need to listen
closely now
rubbing the chin is a way of saying i'm
so deep in my thoughts i'm about to zone
out of reality
if a person starts to clean their
clothes even though there is no
visible dirt or dust on them they
strongly disagree
with something but they haven't decided
if they want to express
their thoughts rubbing the eyebrows or
forehead
is a way to break eye contact and
recollect your thoughts
it may show the person is in a difficult
situation
and thinking of something else is a bit
overwhelming for them
try to control your pupils you can't
sometimes neither can teachers
for example your eye pupils dilate when
people see something they are excited to
see
one alarming sign your ideas won't be
met with a round of applause
is when people squint while listening to
you squinting is a sign people don't
trust what they hear
and have lots of questions about that if
you want to attract someone's attention
by giving them this special look you've
practiced a lot
don't be discouraged by them not paying
attention on average
it takes three attempts before people
will be able to read any sign you make
you can literally read minds if you pay
attention to the direction
people look at when they're thinking if
they look down
and to the left that means they're in
the middle of some inner monologue and
deciding on something
similarly people will look down into the
right when they are trying to remember
something
or using their imagination i passed an
exam today
and i passed another exam today small
difference but pay attention
one word means a lot this another shows
the person wants to demonstrate how good
they are at something
or they're just bragging want someone to
be easy on you
raise your eyebrows it's a sign you are
vulnerable right now and need protection
people will react accordingly to that
people will copy your body language
if they like you and want you to like
them back
try some characteristic postures and
gestures during a conversation
if they mirror you you're on the right
path to win them over
during my days in school the teacher
would often ask the class if someone had
any questions
and after an awkward pause the teacher
would become all gloomy
after that it was impossible to get a
yes from them
asking questions and offering
suggestions is a good way to show your
interest
it adds value to both the discussed
matter and the person you're talking to
this way you will make the other person
feel important and respected
after all people like to help others
just avoid
whining about your problems no one likes
that
so keep the conversation positive and
constructive
like it or not people always form their
first impression from the most
accessible source
which is how you look choose a style
that will be appropriate for this kind
of conversation
no need to discuss your relationship
wearing a suit you know
don't push too hard with all the
persuasion thing it may make people feel
uneasy and stressed
when you leave a choice you show respect
and willingness
not to put a person in a bad situation
even if no one's asking anything back
from you give a nod of appreciation to
them
even a small token gift will do great
when you're known as a grateful person
your reputation will start working for
you
start with eye contact don't be afraid
of looking someone in the eye while
asking for something
you're just showing that you're honest
to them and people usually appreciate it
big time
people won't trust you if you hide your
eyes from them even if you're talking
with someone you don't know
make a note of their eye color first
this will give a reason to establish eye
contact
and also make a compliment find
something you both share with each other
maybe you have a similar hobby or same
everyday problems
or you're both fans of comic books
anything will do
remind the person about that and build
your arguments upon these points
just stay on a positive side and don't
delve into the problem territory too
much
don't cross your arms and don't lock
them with each other it's a defensive
position that shows this conversation is
a nuisance for you
most of the time you'll immediately see
the other person copy this posture
and from this point your conversation is
probably
already going nowhere another trick is
to mirror the posture of the person
you're talking to
this will help to hit it off with anyone
it's a fact that people like the sound
of their name spoken out loud
saying someone's name in a conversation
is the key point in establishing
trustworthy relationships
when you meet someone for the first time
try to remember their name
and use it in the conversation that
follows people love nothing more than
the sound of their own name
it might be hard but it comes off super
personal and thoughtful
you might have noticed that car sales
people use this technique a lot
if you're talking and the other person
is smiling at you
check for crinkles around their eyes if
they're being fake
there won't be any this works the same
way if you're trying to tell if your
friend
really thought your joke was funny if
they're genuinely laughing
there will be crinkles around their eyes
if not
they're faking it chewing gum makes you
look engaged
and it tricks your brain into feeling
comfortable your brain
will send a message like we must be fine
because if we were in real danger
we'd be running plus you're doing
something when you're chewing gum
so it'll make you feel more relaxed
a must know for the office have you ever
messed up at work and know you're going
to be called out for it in the next
meeting
sit right next to your boss or next to
that co-worker who's mad at you
your physical closeness to them will
make them uncomfortable
and they'll be less likely to yell at
you or create any more conflict
this technique works great on first
dates or in job situations
it's been said that people remember the
beginning and end of something
a date an interview a meeting the
clearest
try to be interviewed either first or
last
be the first or last to give your
presentation
plan your date for the beginning or end
of the day
you'll get that call back and here's a
bonus
make sure your hands are warm when
shaking hands with your potential future
boss
having warm hands gives exactly that
impression
that you're a warm kind and open person
it'll make them feel comfortable too